discovery.process and pyroscope.java (#5858)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/pyroscope.java.md

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/reference/components/pyroscope.java/
  - /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/reference/components/pyroscope.java/
  - /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/reference/components/pyroscope.java/
  - /docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/agent/flow/reference/components/pyroscope.java/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/pyroscope.java/
description: Learn about pyroscope.java
title: pyroscope.java
---

# pyroscope.java

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/stability/beta.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT_VERSION>" >}}

> `pyroscope.java` continuously profiles Java processes running on the local Linux OS using async-profiler.

Reviewer: I think we should link back to asprofiler github.

| `forward_to` | `list(ProfilesReceiver)` | List of receivers to send collected profiles to. |         | yes      |
| `tmp_dir`    | `string`                 | Temporary directory to store async-profiler.      | `/tmp`  | no       |

## Profiling behavior

The special label `__process_pid__` _must always_ be present in each target of `targets` and corresponds to the `PID` of
the process to profile.

After component startup, `pyroscope.java` creates a temporary directory under `tmp_dir` and extracts the
async-profiler binaries for both glibc and musl into the directory with the following layout.

```
/tmp/grafana-agent-asprof-glibc-{SHA1}/bin/asprof
/tmp/grafana-agent-asprof-glibc-{SHA1}/lib/libasyncProfiler.so
/tmp/grafana-agent-asprof-musl-{SHA1}/bin/asprof
/tmp/grafana-agent-asprof-musl-{SHA1}/lib/libasyncProfiler.so
```

After process profiling startup, the component detects libc type and copies according `libAsyncProfiler.so` into the
target process file system at the exact same path.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
The `asprof` binary is executed as privileged user.
If you change the `tmp_dir` configuration to something other than `/tmp`, then you must ensure that the

> directory is not writable by unprivileged users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
directory is only writable by root.
```

It might be better to state specifically what user can write to the dir vs the more ambiguous "unprivileged".

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
To use the  `pyroscope.java` component you must run {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} as root and inside host pid namespace.
{{% /admonition %}}

## Usage

```river
pyroscope.java "LABEL" {
  targets    = TARGET_LIST
  forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

| Name         | Type                     | Description                                      | Default | Required |
|--------------|--------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|
| `targets`    | `list(map(string))`      | List of java process targets to profile.         |         | yes      |
| `forward_to` | `list(ProfilesReceiver)` | List of receivers to send collected profiles to. |         | yes      |
| `tmp_dir`    | `string`                 | Temporary directory to store async-profiler      | `/tmp`  | no       |

## Profiling behavior

The special label `__process_pid__` _must always_ be present in each target of `targets` and corresponds to the `PID` of
the process to profile.

Upon component startup, `pyroscope.java` will create a temporary directory under `tmp_dir` and extract the

> async-profiler binaries for both glibc and musl into it with the following layout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
async-profiler binaries for both glibc and musl into the directory with the following layout.
```

```
/tmp/grafana-agent-asprof-glibc-{SHA1}/bin/asprof
/tmp/grafana-agent-asprof-glibc-{SHA1}/lib/libasyncProfiler.so
/tmp/grafana-agent-asprof-musl-{SHA1}/bin/asprof
/tmp/grafana-agent-asprof-musl-{SHA1}/lib/libasyncProfiler.so
```

> Upon process profiling startup, the component detects libc type and copies according `libAsyncProfiler.so` into the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After process profiling startup, the component detects libc type and copies according `libAsyncProfiler.so` into the
```

target process file system at the exact same path.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}

> The `asprof` binary is executed as privileged user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `asprof` binary must be executed by a privileged user.
```

Author: just to clarify: it is the  `pyroscope.java` compoenents which executes `asprof` binary.

`pyroscope.java` should be run as privileged. Users do not execute `asprof` manually.

Is suggestion aligned with it?

Author: cc @clayton-cornell

Reviewer 2: @korniltsev Ah that wasn't clear to me from the context. 

What about something like this:

```suggestion
The `asprof` binary runs with elevated permissions.
```

> If user changes `tmp_dir` configuration to something other than `/tmp`, then it is up to the user to ensure that the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you change the `tmp_dir` configuration to something other than `/tmp`, then you must ensure that the
```

directory is not writable by unprivileged users.
{{% /admonition %}}

> 
> {{% admonition type="note" %}}
> {{% /admonition %}}
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`pyroscope.java`:

| Hierarchy        | Block                | Description                            | Required |
|------------------|----------------------|----------------------------------------|----------|

> | profiling_config | [profiling_config][] | Describes java profiling configuration | no       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| profiling_config | [profiling_config][] | Describes java profiling configuration. | no       |
```

[profiling_config]: #profiling_config-block

### profiling_config block

The `profiling_config` block describes how async-profiler is invoked.

The following arguments are supported:

| Name          | Type       | Description                                                                                             | Default | Required |
|---------------|------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|
| `interval`    | `duration` | How frequently to collect profiles from the targets.                                                    | "60s"   | no       |
| `cpu`         | `bool`     | A flag to enable cpu profiling, using `itimer` async-profiler event.                                    | true    | no       |

> | `sample_rate` | `int`      | CPU profiling sample rate. It is converted from Hz to interval and passed as `-i` arg to async-profiler | 100     | no       |
> | `alloc`       | `string`   | Allocation profiling sampling configuration  It is passed as `--alloc` arg to async-profiler            | "512k"  | no       |
> | `lock`        | `string`   | Lock profiling sampling configuration. It is passed as `--lock` arg to async-profiler                   | "10ms"  | no       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `sample_rate` | `int`      | CPU profiling sample rate. It is converted from Hz to interval and passed as `-i` arg to async-profiler. | 100     | no       |
| `alloc`       | `string`   | Allocation profiling sampling configuration  It is passed as `--alloc` arg to async-profiler.            | "512k"  | no       |
| `lock`        | `string`   | Lock profiling sampling configuration. It is passed as `--lock` arg to async-profiler.                   | "10ms"  | no       |
```
